# Rotary encoder
In this experience the rotary encoder (rotary switch) is used to study the operation of the QEI (Quadrature Encoder Interface) present in the LPC1769 microcontroller. The project provides for the reuse of what is already known from the [*7-segment display management*](../lpc1769_7seg) for the data display section.
## Introduction
The project involves the use of the rotary encoder to study the QEI interface of the microcontroller. The rotation of the encoder will be presented in real time on the 7-segment display. As regards the presentation of the data, please refer to what has already been seen in the [*7-segment display management*](../lpc1769_7seg) project.
## The QEI (Quadrature Encoder Interface)
The QEI interface present inside the LPC1769 microcontroller allows the management of a quadrature encoder (usually optical type), a device external to the micro that works as a position and speed transducer as well as direction thanks to the decoding of two signals in phase quadrature. Often this type of transducer is used to accurately control electric motors. The QEI interface automatically manages the count of the impulses generated by the encoder with the possibility of setting alarm thresholds when certain positions are reached.
## The rotary encoder
The development kit provides a switch-based rotary encoder that allows quadrature signal generation. The complete rotation of the encoder occurs through 24 clicks. The encoder wiring diagram shows us the presence of three internal switches: two for signals A and B (generated during the rotation of the selector) and an additional switch activated by pressing the selector. In this tutorial we will use only signals A and B, postponing the management of the additional switch for future experiences.
